# JHU COEUS Loader

This repo contains code that, when executed, will query the JHU institutional COEUS grant database for desired data
and/or load it into local persistent storage

## Description of Operation

The tool is invoked from the command line to query several views in the JHU COEUS grant management system to pull the
records of all grants or users which have been updated since a certain timestamp. The normal path is that the timestamp
is read from the last line of a file which records all such timestamps after successfully completed runs. Optionally, a
timestamp may be supplied as the `-s` option on the command line.

The ResultSet which is returned from COEUS is transformed into an intermediate Set of data structures which contain the
information we require to update our grants. funders and users. We finally use our java Pass client to merge this update
information with existing information in PASS to have the PASS repository reflect the current information obtained in
the update. Auxiliary objects belonging to the Grant (Users and Funders)
will also receive updates when Grants are updated.

Because the application is intended to run unattended in slack hours, we send email notification indicating success, or
reporting errors which prevented the application from performing an update.

### Configuration

The user running this application must supply a full path to a home or base directory for the application. This
directory will contain any configuration files, and will also contain the log file and the file(s) containing the update
timestamps. Necessary configuration files are as follows.

#### Connection properties file (`connection.properties`)

This file must contain the values for the URL, user, and password needed to attach to COEUS's Oracle database, and the
local directory lookup service. The URL for a database used with the Oracle driver typically looks like this: jdbc:
oracle:thin:@host.name.institution:1521:service-name

We also put the connection parameters for the directory lookup service which provides us a mapping between a user's
employee id and their Hopkins ID. these values are the service's base URL, and the credentials needed to access the
service

`coeus.url =`\
`coeus.user =`\
`coeus.password =`\
`directory.base.url =`\
`directory.client.id =`\
`directory.client.secret =`

#### Mail server properties file (`mail.properties`)

The use of the mail server is enabled by supplying the command line option `-e`. This configuration file contains values
for parameters needed to send mail out from the application. These values suggest using a gmail server for example.

`mail.transport.protocol=SMTPS`\
`mail.smtp.starttls.enable=true`\
`mail.smtp.host=smtp.gmail.com`\
`mail.smtp.port=587`\
`mail.smtp.auth=true`\
`mail.smtp.user=`\
`mail.smtp.password=`\
`mail.from=`\
`mail.to=`

#### Fedora and Elasticsearch configuration (`system.properties`)

This file contains parameters which must be set as system properties so that the java PASS client can configure itself
to attach to its storage and its search endpoint - in our case, a Fedora instance and an Elasticsearch instance. The
base URL must contain the port number and path to the base container (for example, `http://localhost:8080/fcrepo/rest/`)

`pass.fedora.user=`\
`pass.fedora.password=`\
`pass.fedora.baseurl=`\
`pass.elasticsearch.url=`\
`pass.elasticsearch.limit=`

### Grants

Our approach is that for each grant record, to see if PASS knows about it yet, and if so, pull back the current version
of the grant. We then look at the hash map and overwrite any information on the existing object with the new
information. Fields which are themselves ids representing PASS objects are also updated. In order to keep processing as
efficient as possible, we do track which PASS objects have been updated in the current session, as some of them may
appear many times (Funders or Users for example). We update these only once in the session.

After we have processed each record, we save the state of the Grant objects in a List. After all records are processed
we know that each Grant object on the List is current, and so we update these grants in Pass.

This mode is the default mode, but may also be specified using the `-m grant` option.

We note that we (arbitrarily) have populated our grant data only with those having an AWARD_END date on or after
01/01/2011.

### User Mode

This mode (`-m user`) is similar to the `grant` mode, but updates existing PASS users only. Grant updates will update
associated users
(and funders) automatically. This mode is used to perform data updates related to model changes, for example.

### Funder mode

The Funder mode (`-m fundoer ` or `-m localFunder`) is not intended to simply update/create Funder objects from COEUS.
Rather, it is intended to supply the association from Funders to their Policies. Becaue this association is not tracked
in COEUS, it must be developed by hand, and stored in a file named `policy.properties` in the COEUS_HOME directory.
Because of the way data is processed, it is most convenient to use the COEUS version of the Funder's SPONSOR_CODE (our
un-localized locakKey for this Funder - so for example, `8675309` rather than `johnshopkins.edu:funder8675309`), and the
policy URI with the PASS_FEDORA_BASEURL prefix stripped off. Since this base URL ends in fcrepo/rest/, the value of a
property will start with the string
"properties".

An example entry in the policy.properties file linking a Funder with PASS localKey "johnshopkins.edu:funder:8675309 with
a Policy with URI http://localhost:8080/fcrepo/rest/policies/e7/3f/26/70/e73f2670-6ef6-4201-bbcd-04631a93d852
will therefore look like this:

`8675309:policies/e7/3f/26/70/e73f2670-6ef6-4201-bbcd-04631a93d852`

The `policy.properties` file will have to be kept up to date if additional funders are assigned policies. A different
mechanism will be needed to add additional policies, as we require the policies reference in the properties file to be
already present in the system.

Once we have a properties file supplying the associations, there are two modes of operation for Funders - "funder" and
"localFunder". The first of these will construct a query string for COEUS which will pull every Funder mentioned in the
policy.properties file, and create a data object with the localKey, name and policy URI for each entry. This data can
then be loaded into PASS similarly to how this is done for Users and Grants by this loader. If there are new Funders to
be associated to Policies by this loader, this is the only way to go. The second, "localFunder", will not consult COEUS,
but will just update existing Funders in PASS to the Policies referenced in the policy.properties file. The reason that
we cannot create new funders in this case is that the policy.properties file does not contain a name for the funder,
which is needed for the Funder object.

### Actions

The tool can be used to perform a just a pull from COEUS by using the `-a pull` option. This saves a serialized version
of the COEUS data to be applied to PASS at a later time, into a file specified by a path which is the first (only)
command line argument. The subsequent loading into PASS would be accomplished by invoking the tool with the `-a "load"`
option, specifying the serialized data file as the command line argument.

### Invocation

The application is provided as an executable jar file. The absolute path for the base directory `COEUS_HOME` must be
provided as a command line option to java in order to inject it into the java context. The command line looks like this

`java -DCOEUS_HOME=full-path-to-base-directory -jar path-to-jar-file`

when we are taking the timestamp as the last line of the update timestamps file, or

`java -DCOEUS_HOME=full-path-to-base-directory -jar path-to-jar-file -s "yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.0"`

when invoking the application to process all grant updates occurring after the specified timestamps.

For example:

`java -DCOEUS_HOME="/home/luser/coeus" -jar jhu-grant-loader-<version>.jar -s "2018-03-29 14:30:00.0"`

For specific actions, we use the `-a option`, and a file path command line argument.

We can perform a pull of grants from COEUS, and store it in a file, by:

`java -DCOEUS_HOME="/home/luser/coeus" -jar jhu-grant-loader-<version>.jar -s "2018-03-29 14:30:00.0" -a pull /home/luser/coeus/pulls/thisPull.data`

An option has been added - `-g ` - if a particular single grant, identified by its GRANT_NUMBER in COEUS, is desired. For example:

`java -DCOEUS_HOME="/home/luser/coeus" -jar jhu-grant-loader-<version>.jar -s "2018-03-29 14:30:00.0" -g "12345678" -a pull /home/luser/coeus/pulls/thisPull.data`


this data pull can be applied to the PASS repository by a subsequent invocation

`java -DCOEUS_HOME="/home/luser/coeus" -jar jhu-grant-loader-<version>.jar -a load /home/luser/coeus/pulls/thisPull.data`

We note that when a load is being done into PASS, the application will figure out the mode that was used for pulling the
data on the fly. So, it isn't necessary to supply a mode or a start date to the application - these will be ignored.

For Funders, to simply apply the `policy.properties` file data to existing funders, a command line might look like this:

`java -DCOEUS_HOME=/home/luser/coeus -jar jhu-grant-loader-<version>.jar -m "localFunder"`

### Email Notification

We may add the command line option `-e` to enable the use of the email server to send email messages after each execution
which involves a load into PASS. This will report information on the successful run of the application, or information
on what went wrong in the case of an error. If this option is enabled, the email configuration file must be filled out
accordingly. We also have a command line option -m to pass in the mode of operation - grant or user - depending on which
mode we wish to operate in. If no mode is specified, we default to `grant`

### Implementation Details

The processing of the ResultSet is straightforward - we simply construct a set of hash maps which represent the column
names and the values for each record. We do not assume that the PASS objects in Fedora are updated only by this
application, as there may be some fields on these objects which are not known to COEUS, but may be populated by other
applications eventually (for example ORCID on User, Submissions on Grant, or Policy on Funder).